README.rst, before:

=======================================
Elpy, the Emacs Lisp Python Environment
=======================================

Elpy is an Emacs package to bring powerful Python editing to Emacs. It
combines a number of other packages, both written in Emacs Lisp as
well as Python.

.. image:: https://secure.travis-ci.org/jorgenschaefer/elpy.png?branch=master
   :target: http://travis-ci.org/jorgenschaefer/elpy?branch=master

.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/jorgenschaefer/elpy/badge.png?branch=master
   :target: https://coveralls.io/r/jorgenschaefer/elpy?branch=master

Documentation
=============

Elpy is fully documented at readthedocs.org:

http://elpy.readthedocs.org/en/latest/index.html

Quick Installation
==================

First, install the required Python packages:::

  pip install rope

Evaluate this in your ``*scratch*`` buffer:

.. code-block:: lisp

  (require 'package)
  (add-to-list 'package-archives
               '("elpy" . "http://jorgenschaefer.github.io/packages/"))


Then run ``M-x package-refresh-contents`` to load the contents of the
new repository, and ``M-x package-install RET elpy RET`` to install
elpy.

Finally, add the following to your ``.emacs``:

.. code-block:: lisp

  (package-initialize)
  (elpy-enable)

Done.

License
=======

This project is free software: You can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the `GNU General Public License`__, either
version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

.. __: LICENSE

Commit message:

Add a "HACKING" section to README.rst
Describe how to set up the test environment, and how to run tests.

README.rst, after:

=======================================
Elpy, the Emacs Lisp Python Environment
=======================================

Elpy is an Emacs package to bring powerful Python editing to Emacs. It
combines a number of other packages, both written in Emacs Lisp as
well as Python.

.. image:: https://secure.travis-ci.org/jorgenschaefer/elpy.png?branch=master
   :target: http://travis-ci.org/jorgenschaefer/elpy?branch=master

.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/jorgenschaefer/elpy/badge.png?branch=master
   :target: https://coveralls.io/r/jorgenschaefer/elpy?branch=master

Documentation
=============

Elpy is fully documented at readthedocs.org:

http://elpy.readthedocs.org/en/latest/index.html

Quick Installation
==================

First, install the required Python packages::

  pip install rope  # or
  pip install jedi

Evaluate this in your ``*scratch*`` buffer:

.. code-block:: lisp

  (require 'package)
  (add-to-list 'package-archives
               '("elpy" . "http://jorgenschaefer.github.io/packages/"))


Then run ``M-x package-refresh-contents`` to load the contents of the
new repository, and ``M-x package-install RET elpy RET`` to install
elpy.

Finally, add the following to your ``.emacs``:

.. code-block:: lisp

  (package-initialize)
  (elpy-enable)

Done.

Hacking
=======

When hacking on elpy, please add tests to the Python and/or Emacs Lisp test
suites.  To set up the test environment, you can install the dependencies using
``pip`` and ``cask``, respectively.

* Python dependencies: optionally set up a virtualenv, then run
  ``pip install -r requirements.txt``
* Elisp dependencies: install Cask_, then run ``cask install``

When this is done, you can run ``make test`` to run both test suites, or ``make
python-test`` or ``make elisp-test`` to run just one.

License
=======

This project is free software: You can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the `GNU General Public License`__, either
version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

.. __: LICENSE
.. _Cask: http://cask.readthedocs.org/en/latest/#user-guide
