README.md, before:

# Elpy, the Emacs Lisp Python Environment

Elpy is an Emacs package to bring powerful Python editing to Emacs. It
combines a number of other packages, both written in Emacs Lisp as
well as Python.

## Documentation

You can find the documentation [on the wiki][wiki].

[wiki]: https://github.com/jorgenschaefer/elpy/wiki

## Quick Installation

You can also read the [detailed installation instructions][Installation].

[Installation]: https://github.com/jorgenschaefer/elpy/wiki/Installation

First, install the required Python packages:

```
pip install elpy rope pyflakes pep8
```

Then put the `python-check.sh` script somewhere in your `PATH`:

```
wget -O ~/bin/python-check.sh \
    https://raw.github.com/jorgenschaefer/elpy/master/python-check.sh
```

Evaluate this in your `*scratch*` buffer:

```Lisp
(add-to-list 'package-archives
             '("marmalade" . "http://marmalade-repo.org/packages/"))
```

Then run `M-x package-install RET elpy RET`.

Finally, add the following to your `.emacs`:

```Lisp
(setq python-check-command "python-check.sh")
(package-initialize)
(elpy-enable)
```

Done.

Commit message:

README.md: Add a note about using the development version of elpy.
This causes issues with people trying to install the elpy version
from git but then get the outdated backend from elpy.

Fixes #27

README.md, after:

# Elpy, the Emacs Lisp Python Environment

Elpy is an Emacs package to bring powerful Python editing to Emacs. It
combines a number of other packages, both written in Emacs Lisp as
well as Python.

## Documentation

You can find the documentation [on the wiki][wiki].

[wiki]: https://github.com/jorgenschaefer/elpy/wiki

## Quick Installation

You can also read the [detailed installation instructions][Installation].

[Installation]: https://github.com/jorgenschaefer/elpy/wiki/Installation

First, install the required Python packages:

```
pip install elpy rope pyflakes pep8
```

(Note: If you are installing the development version of elpy, do not
install the elpy Python package, but simply put the repository in your
`PYTHONPATH`.)

Then put the `python-check.sh` script somewhere in your `PATH`:

```
wget -O ~/bin/python-check.sh \
    https://raw.github.com/jorgenschaefer/elpy/master/python-check.sh
```

Evaluate this in your `*scratch*` buffer:

```Lisp
(add-to-list 'package-archives
             '("marmalade" . "http://marmalade-repo.org/packages/"))
```

Then run `M-x package-install RET elpy RET`.

Finally, add the following to your `.emacs`:

```Lisp
(setq python-check-command "python-check.sh")
(package-initialize)
(elpy-enable)
```

Done.
