docs/ide.rst, before:

============
IDE Features
============

.. default-domain:: el

Projects
========

Elpy supports the notion of *projects*, a related collection of files
under a common directory. This common directory is called the
:index:`project root`. A number of Elpy's commands work on all files
inside the project root.

.. command:: elpy-find-file
   :kbd: C-c C-f

   Find a file in the current project. This uses a search-as-you-type
   interface for all files under the project root.

   A prefix argument enables "do what I mean" mode. On an import
   statement, it will try to open the module imported. Elsewhere in a
   file, it will look for an associated test or implementation file,
   and if found, open that. If this fails, either way, it will fall
   back to the normal find file in project behavior.

   If the current file is called ``foo.py``, then this will search for
   a ``test_foo.py`` in the same directory, or in a ``test`` or
   ``tests`` subdirectory. If the current file is already called
   ``test_foo.py``, it will try and find a ``foo.py`` nearby.

   This command uses `find-file-in-project`_ under the hood, so see
   there for more options.

.. _find-file-in-project: https://github.com/technomancy/find-file-in-project

.. command:: elpy-rgrep-symbol
   :kbd: C-c C-s

   Search the files in the current project for a string. By default,
   this uses the symbol at point. With a prefix argument, it will
   prompt for a regular expression to search.

   This is basically a ``grep -r`` through the project.

In addition to these two commands, :command:`elpy-check` also supports
optionally checking all files in the current project.

Elpy's idea of the project root and which files belong to a project
and which don't can be influenced as well.

.. command:: elpy-set-project-root

   Set the current project root directory. This directory should
   contain all files related to the current project.

.. option:: elpy-project-ignored-directories

   When Elpy searches for files in the current project, it will ignore
   files in directories listed here.

.. option:: elpy-project-root-finder-functions

   To find the project root, Elpy can utilize a number of heuristics.
   With this option, you can configure which are used.

To configure Elpy specifically for a single project, you can use
Emacs' `Directory Variables`_. Elpy provides a simple interface to
this.

.. command:: elpy-set-project-variable

   Set or change the value of a project-wide variable. With a prefix
   argument, the value for the variable is removed.

   This only takes effect in new buffers.

.. _Directory Variables: https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Directory-Variables.html


Completion
==========

When you type Python code, Elpy will try and figure out possible
completions and provide them in a suggestion window. If Elpy doesn't
do so automatically, you can force it to complete right where you are.

.. command:: elpy-company-backend
   :kbd: M-TAB

   Provide completion suggestions for a completion at point.

You can use cursor keys or :kbd:`M-n` and :kbd:`M-p` to scroll through
the options, :kbd:`RET` to use the selected completion, or :kbd:`TAB`
to complete the common part. :kbd:`C-d` or :kbd:`<f1>` on an option
will show its documentation.

Elpy uses `Company Mode`_ for the completion interface, so its
documentation is a good place for further information.

.. _Company Mode: https://company-mode.github.io/


Navigation
==========

Elpy supports some advanced navigation features inside Python
projects.

.. command:: elpy-goto-definition
   :kbd: M-.

   Go to the location where the identifier at point is defined. This
   is not always easy to make out, so the result can be wrong. Also,
   the backends can not always identify what kind of symbol is at
   point. Especially after a few indirections, they have basically no
   hope of guessing right, so they don't.

.. command:: pop-tag-mark
   :kbd: M-*

   Go back to the last place where :kbd:`M-.` was used, effectively
   turning :kbd:`M-.` and :kbd:`M-*` into a forward and backward
   motion for definition lookups.


Interactive Python
==================

Emacs can run a Python interpreter in a special buffer, making it much
easier to send code snippets over.

.. command:: elpy-shell-switch-to-shell
   :kbd: C-c C-z

   Switch to buffer with a Python interpreter running, starting one if
   necessary.

   Do note that Elpy only starts a single interactive Python process.
   This process will inherit the current virtual env. If you want to
   start a Python interpreter with a different virtual env, you can
   either kill the existing one, or rename the buffer.

.. command:: elpy-shell-send-region-or-buffer
   :kbd: C-c C-c

   Whenever you are in an Elpy buffer, :kbd:`C-c C-c` will send Python
   code to the subprocess. If there is an active region, that region
   will be sent; if not, the whole buffer is sent.

   This command will also escape any uses of the ``if __name__ ==
   '__main__'`` idiom, to prevent accidental execution of a script. If
   you want this to be evaluated, pass a prefix argument with
   :kbd:`C-u`.

.. command:: python-shell-send-defun
   :kbd: C-M-x

   Similar to :kbd:`C-c C-c`, this will send the code of the current
   top level class or function to the interactive Python process.

.. option:: elpy-interactive-python-command

   This option changes the default interpreter to use for the
   interactive Python shell. While there are options available from
   ``python-mode``, using this one will do the right thing when you
   choose to use `IPython`_.

   The problem is that IPython uses a different prompt pattern and
   slightly different modules for tab completion, which confuses the
   standard ``python-mode`` interactive shell mode. Using this
   variable will change all associated options to deal with IPython
   correctly.

.. command:: elpy-use-ipython
.. command:: elpy-use-cpython

   Alternatively, you can also use these commands, either
   interactively or from your ``.emacs``, to set the interactive
   interpreter.

   As an IPython user, you might be interested in the `Emacs IPython
   Notebook`_, too.

.. _IPython: http://ipython.org/
.. _Emacs IPython Notebook: https://tkf.github.io/emacs-ipython-notebook/


Syntax Checking
===============

Whenever you save a file, Elpy will run a syntax check and highlight
possible errors or warnings inline.

.. command:: elpy-flymake-next-error
   :kbd: C-c C-n
.. command:: elpy-flymake-previous-error
   :kbd: C-c C-p

   You can navigate between any error messages with these keys. The
   current error will be shown in the minibuffer.

Elpy uses the built-in `Flymake`_ library to find syntax errors on the
fly, so see there for more configuration options.

.. _Flymake: https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/flymake/index.html#Top


.. command:: elpy-check
   :kbd: C-c C-v

   Alternatively, you can run a syntax check on the current file where
   the output is displayed in a new buffer, giving you an overview and
   allowing you to jump to the errors from there.

   With a prefix argument, this will run the syntax check on all files
   in the current project.

.. option:: python-check-command

   To change which command is used for syntax checks, you can
   customize this option. By default, Elpy uses the ``flake8``
   program, which you have to install separately. The
   :command:`elpy-config` command will prompt you to do this if Elpy
   can't find the program.

   It is possible to create a single virtual env for the sole purpose
   of installing ``flake8`` in there, and then simply link the command
   script to a directory inside your :envvar:`PATH`, meaning you do
   not need to install the program in every virtual env separately.


Documentation
=============

Elpy provides a single interface to documentation.

.. command:: elpy-doc
   :kbd: C-c C-d

   When point is on a symbol, Elpy will try and find the documentation
   for that object, and display that. If it can't find the
   documentation for whatever reason, it will try and look up the
   symbol at point in pydoc. If it's not there, either, it will prompt
   the user for a string to look up in pydoc.

   With a prefix argument, Elpy will skip all the guessing and just
   prompt the user for a string to look up in pydoc.


Testing
=======

Testing is an important part of programming. Elpy provides a central
interface to testing, which allows for a good workflow for tests.

Elpy's test interface is built around Emacs' `compilation framework`_.
Elpy will run test commands as a compilation job, with all the
advantages this brings.

.. _compilation framework: https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Compilation.html

.. command:: elpy-test
   :kbd: C-c C-t

   Start a test run. This uses the currently configured test runner to
   discover and run tests. If point is inside a test case, the test
   runner will run exactly that test case. Otherwise, or if a prefix
   argument is given, it will run all tests.

.. command:: elpy-set-test-runner

   This changes the current test runner. Elpy supports the standard
   unittest discovery runner, the Django discovery runner, nose and
   py.test. You can also write your own, as described in
   :ref:`Writing Test Runners`.

This enables a good workflow. You write a test and use :kbd:`C-c C-t`
to watch it fail. You then go to your implementation file, for example
using :kbd:`C-u C-c C-f`, and make the test pass. You can use a key
bound to ``recompile`` (I use :kbd:`<f5>` for this) to just re-run
that one test. Once that passes, you can use :kbd:`C-c C-t` again to
run all tests to make sure they all pass as well. Repeat.

For an even more automated way, you can use `tdd.el`_, which will run
your last compile command whenever you save a file.

.. _tdd.el: https://github.com/jorgenschaefer/emacs-tdd/


Refactoring
===========

Elpy supports refactoring Python code. This feature is about to be
rewritten, so not documented yet.

.. command:: elpy-refactor
   :kbd: C-c C-r

   FIXME!

Commit message:

Extract documentation from completions, add locations.
Elpy now supports both the documentation and the location display
feature of Company. You can use C-d to see documentation for a
completion and C-w to see the source in context.

This change also removes docstrings from the default completion
response, improving performance in the common case, and finishing
the transition from auto-complete to company-mode.

docs/ide.rst, after:

============
IDE Features
============

.. default-domain:: el

Projects
========

Elpy supports the notion of *projects*, a related collection of files
under a common directory. This common directory is called the
:index:`project root`. A number of Elpy's commands work on all files
inside the project root.

.. command:: elpy-find-file
   :kbd: C-c C-f

   Find a file in the current project. This uses a search-as-you-type
   interface for all files under the project root.

   A prefix argument enables "do what I mean" mode. On an import
   statement, it will try to open the module imported. Elsewhere in a
   file, it will look for an associated test or implementation file,
   and if found, open that. If this fails, either way, it will fall
   back to the normal find file in project behavior.

   If the current file is called ``foo.py``, then this will search for
   a ``test_foo.py`` in the same directory, or in a ``test`` or
   ``tests`` subdirectory. If the current file is already called
   ``test_foo.py``, it will try and find a ``foo.py`` nearby.

   This command uses `find-file-in-project`_ under the hood, so see
   there for more options.

.. _find-file-in-project: https://github.com/technomancy/find-file-in-project

.. command:: elpy-rgrep-symbol
   :kbd: C-c C-s

   Search the files in the current project for a string. By default,
   this uses the symbol at point. With a prefix argument, it will
   prompt for a regular expression to search.

   This is basically a ``grep -r`` through the project.

In addition to these two commands, :command:`elpy-check` also supports
optionally checking all files in the current project.

Elpy's idea of the project root and which files belong to a project
and which don't can be influenced as well.

.. command:: elpy-set-project-root

   Set the current project root directory. This directory should
   contain all files related to the current project.

.. option:: elpy-project-ignored-directories

   When Elpy searches for files in the current project, it will ignore
   files in directories listed here.

.. option:: elpy-project-root-finder-functions

   To find the project root, Elpy can utilize a number of heuristics.
   With this option, you can configure which are used.

To configure Elpy specifically for a single project, you can use
Emacs' `Directory Variables`_. Elpy provides a simple interface to
this.

.. command:: elpy-set-project-variable

   Set or change the value of a project-wide variable. With a prefix
   argument, the value for the variable is removed.

   This only takes effect in new buffers.

.. _Directory Variables: https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Directory-Variables.html


Completion
==========

When you type Python code, Elpy will try and figure out possible
completions and provide them in a suggestion window. If Elpy doesn't
do so automatically, you can force it to complete right where you are.

.. command:: elpy-company-backend
   :kbd: M-TAB

   Provide completion suggestions for a completion at point.

You can use cursor keys or :kbd:`M-n` and :kbd:`M-p` to scroll through
the options, :kbd:`RET` to use the selected completion, or :kbd:`TAB`
to complete the common part.

On any completion option, :kbd:`C-d` or :kbd:`<f1>` will display a
temporary window with documentation. :kbd:`C-w` will display a
temporary window showing the source code of the completion to get some
context.

Elpy uses `Company Mode`_ for the completion interface, so its
documentation is a good place for further information.

.. _Company Mode: https://company-mode.github.io/


Navigation
==========

Elpy supports some advanced navigation features inside Python
projects.

.. command:: elpy-goto-definition
   :kbd: M-.

   Go to the location where the identifier at point is defined. This
   is not always easy to make out, so the result can be wrong. Also,
   the backends can not always identify what kind of symbol is at
   point. Especially after a few indirections, they have basically no
   hope of guessing right, so they don't.

.. command:: pop-tag-mark
   :kbd: M-*

   Go back to the last place where :kbd:`M-.` was used, effectively
   turning :kbd:`M-.` and :kbd:`M-*` into a forward and backward
   motion for definition lookups.


Interactive Python
==================

Emacs can run a Python interpreter in a special buffer, making it much
easier to send code snippets over.

.. command:: elpy-shell-switch-to-shell
   :kbd: C-c C-z

   Switch to buffer with a Python interpreter running, starting one if
   necessary.

   Do note that Elpy only starts a single interactive Python process.
   This process will inherit the current virtual env. If you want to
   start a Python interpreter with a different virtual env, you can
   either kill the existing one, or rename the buffer.

.. command:: elpy-shell-send-region-or-buffer
   :kbd: C-c C-c

   Whenever you are in an Elpy buffer, :kbd:`C-c C-c` will send Python
   code to the subprocess. If there is an active region, that region
   will be sent; if not, the whole buffer is sent.

   This command will also escape any uses of the ``if __name__ ==
   '__main__'`` idiom, to prevent accidental execution of a script. If
   you want this to be evaluated, pass a prefix argument with
   :kbd:`C-u`.

.. command:: python-shell-send-defun
   :kbd: C-M-x

   Similar to :kbd:`C-c C-c`, this will send the code of the current
   top level class or function to the interactive Python process.

.. option:: elpy-interactive-python-command

   This option changes the default interpreter to use for the
   interactive Python shell. While there are options available from
   ``python-mode``, using this one will do the right thing when you
   choose to use `IPython`_.

   The problem is that IPython uses a different prompt pattern and
   slightly different modules for tab completion, which confuses the
   standard ``python-mode`` interactive shell mode. Using this
   variable will change all associated options to deal with IPython
   correctly.

.. command:: elpy-use-ipython
.. command:: elpy-use-cpython

   Alternatively, you can also use these commands, either
   interactively or from your ``.emacs``, to set the interactive
   interpreter.

   As an IPython user, you might be interested in the `Emacs IPython
   Notebook`_, too.

.. _IPython: http://ipython.org/
.. _Emacs IPython Notebook: https://tkf.github.io/emacs-ipython-notebook/


Syntax Checking
===============

Whenever you save a file, Elpy will run a syntax check and highlight
possible errors or warnings inline.

.. command:: elpy-flymake-next-error
   :kbd: C-c C-n
.. command:: elpy-flymake-previous-error
   :kbd: C-c C-p

   You can navigate between any error messages with these keys. The
   current error will be shown in the minibuffer.

Elpy uses the built-in `Flymake`_ library to find syntax errors on the
fly, so see there for more configuration options.

.. _Flymake: https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/flymake/index.html#Top


.. command:: elpy-check
   :kbd: C-c C-v

   Alternatively, you can run a syntax check on the current file where
   the output is displayed in a new buffer, giving you an overview and
   allowing you to jump to the errors from there.

   With a prefix argument, this will run the syntax check on all files
   in the current project.

.. option:: python-check-command

   To change which command is used for syntax checks, you can
   customize this option. By default, Elpy uses the ``flake8``
   program, which you have to install separately. The
   :command:`elpy-config` command will prompt you to do this if Elpy
   can't find the program.

   It is possible to create a single virtual env for the sole purpose
   of installing ``flake8`` in there, and then simply link the command
   script to a directory inside your :envvar:`PATH`, meaning you do
   not need to install the program in every virtual env separately.


Documentation
=============

Elpy provides a single interface to documentation.

.. command:: elpy-doc
   :kbd: C-c C-d

   When point is on a symbol, Elpy will try and find the documentation
   for that object, and display that. If it can't find the
   documentation for whatever reason, it will try and look up the
   symbol at point in pydoc. If it's not there, either, it will prompt
   the user for a string to look up in pydoc.

   With a prefix argument, Elpy will skip all the guessing and just
   prompt the user for a string to look up in pydoc.


Testing
=======

Testing is an important part of programming. Elpy provides a central
interface to testing, which allows for a good workflow for tests.

Elpy's test interface is built around Emacs' `compilation framework`_.
Elpy will run test commands as a compilation job, with all the
advantages this brings.

.. _compilation framework: https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Compilation.html

.. command:: elpy-test
   :kbd: C-c C-t

   Start a test run. This uses the currently configured test runner to
   discover and run tests. If point is inside a test case, the test
   runner will run exactly that test case. Otherwise, or if a prefix
   argument is given, it will run all tests.

.. command:: elpy-set-test-runner

   This changes the current test runner. Elpy supports the standard
   unittest discovery runner, the Django discovery runner, nose and
   py.test. You can also write your own, as described in
   :ref:`Writing Test Runners`.

This enables a good workflow. You write a test and use :kbd:`C-c C-t`
to watch it fail. You then go to your implementation file, for example
using :kbd:`C-u C-c C-f`, and make the test pass. You can use a key
bound to ``recompile`` (I use :kbd:`<f5>` for this) to just re-run
that one test. Once that passes, you can use :kbd:`C-c C-t` again to
run all tests to make sure they all pass as well. Repeat.

For an even more automated way, you can use `tdd.el`_, which will run
your last compile command whenever you save a file.

.. _tdd.el: https://github.com/jorgenschaefer/emacs-tdd/


Refactoring
===========

Elpy supports refactoring Python code. This feature is about to be
rewritten, so not documented yet.

.. command:: elpy-refactor
   :kbd: C-c C-r

   FIXME!
